Traffic security research is a field that investigates matters of traffic safety, such as determining the factors that influence rates of accidents and
finding methods and models that allows for making accurate traffic predictions. A central problem is to find reliable ways to estimate the [ref] rate of collision in a
given traffic location. This turns out to be a challenging problem, primarily due to the fact that collisions are so rare [ref] - a problem which is exacerbated
by the fact that these sometimes go unreported []. Even if it was practically feasible to collect sufficient amounts of crash data to produce a reliable estimate
of the collision-rate, this reactive approach runs contrary to the main purpose of traffic security research, which is to prevent accidents before they occur.
As such, there is a need to be able to evaluate traffic safety levels based on events that are less extreme. Research [ref] has established that there is a
relationship between rates of traffic conflicts and rates of traffic collisions, and that the factors that lead to such events are similar[ref]. This suggests
that it should be possible to infer the rates of collision based on observations of conflicts via some form of extrapolation method. Over recent years there has
been a growing interest in using Extreme value theory (EVT) for such extrapolation purposes[ref] - a method made possible by the the fact that there seems to
be continuity across the spectrum of traffic events of varying levels of severity [ref]. It requires few modeling assumptions, and is supported rigorous
mathematical theory [1].

Application of EVT to traffic safety is made possible by assigning in an objective way a value to each conflict [1] that indicates its level of danger, based on what is
called a severity measure or safety surrogate measure. After a sufficient number of conflicts have been observed, and data has been collected, EVT is used to
model the tail of the distribution generating the data, which corresponds to the most extreme traffic events.

The selection of severity measure is an important part of the estimation process, both for practical and theoretical reasons. Two commonly used severity measure are
time-to-collision (TTC) and post-encroachment-time (PET), both of which provide a snapshot of the degree of danger at a particular moment in time during an
encounter. TTC is defined as the time it would take for two road users to collide under the assumption that they continue moving with constant velocity. PET is
defined as the time it takes from time t0 for one road user to first intersect with the the path of motion of the other [ref]. A drawback with PET is that it
it fails to capture the severity of the situation when a collision is avoided by a road user hitting the brakes, since this road user would then have to first
accelerate after stopping before crossing the path of the other road user, resulting in a deceptively high PET value.


TTC does not suffer this drawback, but has instead a disadvantage in that it assigns severity level in a somewhat
unrealistic way, as road users in many interesting situations do not habitually continue forward with constant motion. For instance, in an intersection people will
often decelerate out of habit, and have a certain trajectory in mind that they are expecting to follow. Furthermore, TTC can miss-identify certain situations
as non-dangerous when the road users are not on collision course. For instance, if two road users pass each other in an intersection with high constant velocities
and miss each other only by a few centimeters(for instance as a consequence of not seeing each other), we would classify that as a highly dangerous encounter as
only a small modification of intended behavior would result in a devastating outcome. Despite this intuition, TTC would indicate no danger whatsoever, since they
were technically never on collision course.

One way to modify the notion of TTC to remedy this drawback, is to assign severity level in probabilistic manner. In the article
[2008 - Probabilistic Frame],  Saunier and Sayed suggests taking the approach of assigning the severity level of 
