slide 1
hello. I'm a master student taking my master in mathematical statistics. I will give a brief presentation of
my master thesis on the subject of stochastic TTC that I have done under the supervision of
Nader and Alieksei. My first challenge was to see if stochastic TTC made sense from a mathematical point, and if
we could develop necessary equations to combine this sort of data with EVT.

slide 2
It turned out that yes you can make sense of it, and I derived this equation. I have tested it extensively on
many different types of simulated data, and it works well. So we had the mathematical framework set-up.

slide 3
There were some challenges though. We had a fairly good idea at that point of how to use stochastic TTC in
the cases when there was no evasive-action. for each time-frame of an encounter, we could base the
estimate of the probability-distribution on previous observation of how vehicles behaved in similar situations.
The problem is when the vehicles start interaction with each other. Then this empirical approach does not work very well
because we are unlikely to have many observations to allow us to say how the vehicles are likely to move.

One way to approach this problem is to find a way to split up the data into encounters where there was evasive interaction
and encounters where there was no evasive action, and analyze them separately. For data where the vehicles try to evade
each other, we can define TTC-at-first-evasive-action, which is a measure of how dangerous the encounter was the moment before
the evasive action started. For this measure we can use stochastic-TTC. For encounters with evasive action we can further measure the
minimum-ttc-during-conflict-resolution. For this measure we still have to decide on what safety-surrogate-measure
is most appropriate.

slide 4
(show pictures)
Here's an example of what samples of such measurements could look like. This is data collected from 500 encounters.
In the left figure we see that there is data point that dips below the 0 threshold. What  this means is that a collision
occurred for which the first interaction was the collision itself. What this means is that we can apply EVT to
this kind of data in order to estimate the probability of collision where there was no attempt to avoid it, i.e. where they
did not notice each-other at all. Similarly for the figure on the right, a data point below zero means that a collision
occurred where there was an attempt to avoid it, but it failed. By estimating these two probabilities and adding them
together, we estimate the probability for collision. For encounters with no evasive action, we can also estimate
 the probability of collision with no attempt at avoiding it, but I wont go into detail about that herefor the sake of time.

 slide 5
 In order to test the performance of stochastic-TTC and several different estimation methods, I programmed a simulation of
 encounters between two road-users heading in opposite directions. The road users are programmed to try to avoid collision,
 and become more likely to engage in evasive action the closer they get to colliding. This simulation allowed me to test various
 methods for estimating the collision probability, and see what their statistical properties are like. In the simulation
 I use 2 different safety-surrogate-measures in order to have something to compare against: separation distance, and stochastic-TTC.

slide 6
There are many ways to measure how well different methods perform, but here I will focus on 2 results that I find the most
interesting. One of the important applications of EVT in traffic security is to evaluate which traffic location is safest.
Therefore, I wanted to set up a test to see how often various methods perform in their ability to produce correct predictions.
I simulated two sets of data, one where the collision-probability was 8/10^5, and one from a simulation
representing a more dangerous traffic location where the collision probability was 20/10^5. The procedure is that generate two
sets of data, with 500 encounters in each set, I estimate the collision probabilities using different methods, and then I use these to
predict which data set come from the safer traffic-location. This gets repeated many times to see what the success and failure rates are.
Another performance test was that how likely each method is to produce estimates that deviate from the true value by less than 80%.

slide 7
(figures)
Here one the top figure we see the percentage of time each method made a correct prediction. The top two lines correspond to
predictions made using stochastic TTC, and the one below corresponds to predictions made using separation-distance. Here we can see
that stochastic TTC gets it right significantly more often. Below we can see how often they made an incorrect prediction, also
here we can see TTC-stochastic performs better. Note that both plots are needed because the test can be inconclusive, which
happens when the both estimates are 0, which is the reason why this pink one is so low in both plots.

slide 8
(accuracy plots)
Here we can see that stochastic-TTC performs slightly better in terms of being close to the true value; it seems to deviate
from the true value less than 80% around 5-6% more often.

slide 9
My conclusion so far is that I think that stochastic TTC seems very promising, and I am very interested 
to see how well the methods I've investigated will work on real life data. I would also like to
make the simulation more realistic and add more features to it, so that I can get a better sense
of how well the conclusions generalize. Lastly, I would like to make the selection of various parameters more
optimal and objective.

Thanks for listening.
