I just had an insight into why ttc stochastic performs better as a surrogate measure than minimum distance.
I've noticed that a commonality amongst all the instances where I get poor estimates is when I have few
outliers. Getting good estimates is not just a matter of getting extreme observations, as in being close to zero,
but also how many such values one gets.

Lets say that we observe an event that was extreme, as in close to a collision. What that means is that

Can we give any kind of rough outline for what constitutes a good indicator of danger, that is a good surrogate measure.
A good surrogate measure is one for which there is a smooth distribution function, all the way from the extreme
to the less extreme part of the distribution. Roughly speaking, a bad indicator is a random variable for which
the tails are hard to estimate based on less extreme observations, such that a large amounts of data is required in
order to get a decent estimate. An example of a bad surrogate measure is for the purposes of applying EVT is
the indicator function for collision. It satisfies the requirement that X<0 <--> collision, but it has a
discontinuous distribution function, and non-extreme data is pretty much worthless for making inference about
the tail of the distribution. From this, we can guess that any random variable which has a distribution function
which has a distribution function close to that of X is going to exhibit similar drawbacks if we were to apply EVT to
make inference about the tails. It is the sudden drop-off as we get to the tail that causes this un-suitableness
for EVT to be applied. Based on this discussion, we may guess that any random variable that has the tendency to
cluster above a certain threshold will be ill-suited to the task of being a surrogate measure. We want a surrogate
measure that distinguishes events that are rare - and thus provides information about the tail - from events that
are common. Based on this, we expect the minimum distance to be a less suitable surrogate measure than minimum TTC,
because minimum distance will sometimes fail to distinguish a dangerous encounter from a safe one; it is possible for
two encounters to have the same minimum distance, yet be radically different in terms of perceived danger.

Intuitively, encounters where only a small modification of behavior would result in a collisions are considered to contain more information
about the safety level of an intersection than encounters where a large modification is required. For instance, if
only a very small delay in reaction time would be sufficient for the encounter to result in a collision, that would
tilt us towards believing the intersection is dangerous. If
